---
date: 2021-01-10
title: Building a Blog with 11ty - Part 1
description: I recently tried out 11ty for the first time, and I was really impressed! Read how I built a simple blog (this website), and my impressions from the process.
---

I had heard about [11ty](https://www.11ty.dev/) here and there, in podcasts and from people talking about it. Recently, I simply decided that I would play around with it a little bit, and build a simple blog site.

I've been a huge fan of static site generators for a while now. My homepage was previously built on Jekyll, and published on GitHub Pages. I love that simplicity of coding in HTML, CSS, and a dash of a templating language. And that deploying is only a matter of pushing to the `master` branch.

There was always some amount of frustrations with Jekyll though. For example there are some limitations with the Liquid templating language that didn't apear to be addressing any time soon, and creating my own workaround was not the easiest thing.

I think Eleventy really hits the spot for me, in addressing my pain points with Jekyll.

Eleventy has the simplicity that I love about Jekyll, but with a few advantages, which are huge for me personally. 

* It is very quick to get started with.
* It gives you choices in which templating language to use.
* You can easily create custom filters and functions to use within the templating markup.

I would also add that since 11ty is an up-and-coming project with a good following, I expect a continuous roll out of new features and improvements.

Anyway, let's walk through how I built this homepage using Eleventy.

## Set Up and the First Pages

Install 11ty using `npm`.

```bash
npm install -g @11ty/eleventy
```

Create a directory for the website, and an `index.md` file there. In it, add some simple content to start.

```markdown
# My Website
Built using Eleventy!
```

Now you are ready to build the static site, simply by the command `eleventy`.

This will build the site to the `_site` directory. For now it will simply contain a `index.html` file which should look like:

```html
<h1>My Website</h1>
<p>Built using Eleventy!</p>
```

You can also serve the site in development mode by `eleventy --serve` and watch for changes.

That's all there is to the basic process of starting an Eleventy site! 

In my next post, we will go over how to build on this further using layouts.

## Resources

* [11ty Official Website](https://www.11ty.dev/)
* [Netlify tutorial on 11ty](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2020/04/09/lets-learn-eleventy-boost-your-jamstack-skills-with-11ty/)
